README.md, before:

# Next.js 15 Starter (shadcn) [[LIVE DEMO](https://nextjs-15-starter-shadcn.vercel.app/)]

![MIT License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue) [![TypeScript](https://badgen.net/badge/icon/typescript?icon=typescript&label)](https://typescriptlang.org) ![ESLint](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-eslint-brightgreen) ![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/siddharthamaity/nextjs-15-starter-shadcn?style=social) ![GitHub forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/siddharthamaity/nextjs-15-starter-shadcn?style=social) [![Say Thanks!](https://img.shields.io/badge/Say%20Thanks-!-1EAEDB.svg)](https://saythanks.io/to/siddharthamaity)

*This is the Tailwind version for Next.js 15 Starter, you may be interested in other templates too -*
- [**Next.js 15 Starter Core**](https://github.com/SiddharthaMaity/nextjs-15-starter-core)
- [**Next.js 15 Starter with Tailwind CSS**](https://github.com/SiddharthaMaity/nextjs-15-starter-tailwind)

Welcome to the **Next.js 15 Starter** repository! This starter template is built with Next.js 15, React 19, TypeScript 5, Tailwind CSS 3, Shadcn UI and comes packed with several powerful tools and configurations to accelerate your project setup and streamline development workflows using VS Code.

![Next.js 15 Starter Shadcn](public/images/screenshot1.png)

![Next.js 15 Starter Shadcn](public/images/screenshot2.png)

## 🚀 What's Included

- **Next.js 15**
- **React 19**
- **TypeScript 5**
- **ESLint 9**
- **Prettier 3**
- **Tailwind CSS 4**
- **Shadcn UI**
- **App Directory**
- **System, Light & Dark Mode**
- **Next.js Bundle Analyzer**
- **Dockerfile** with Node.js 22.14.0 (Alpine)

### 🛠️ ESLint Plugins

- [**@eslint/js**](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@eslint/js)
- [**typescript-eslint**](https://github.com/typescript-eslint/typescript-eslint)
- [**eslint-plugin-react**](https://github.com/jsx-eslint/eslint-plugin-react)
- [**@next/eslint-plugin-next**](https://github.com/vercel/next.js)
- [**eslint-config-prettier**](eslint-config-prettier)
- [**eslint-plugin-tailwindcss**](https://github.com/francoismassart/eslint-plugin-tailwindcss)
- [**eslint-plugin-import**](https://github.com/import-js/eslint-plugin-import)
- [**eslint-plugin-promise**](https://github.com/eslint-community/eslint-plugin-promise)

### ✨ Prettier Plugins

- [**@trivago/prettier-plugin-sort-imports**](https://github.com/trivago/prettier-plugin-sort-imports)
- [**prettier-plugin-tailwindcss**](https://github.com/tailwindlabs/prettier-plugin-tailwindcss)

### 💻 VS Code Extensions (Recommended)

To enhance development experience, install the following VS Code extensions:

- [**Auto Close Tag**](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=formulahendry.auto-close-tag)
- [**Better Comments**](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=aaron-bond.better-comments)
- [**DotENV**](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=mikestead.dotenv)
- [**EditorConfig for VS Code**](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=EditorConfig.EditorConfig)
- [**ESLint**](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=dbaeumer.vscode-eslint)
- [**formate: CSS/LESS/SCSS formatter**](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=MikeBovenlander.formate)
- [**Git History**](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=donjayamanne.githistory)
- [**Import Cost**](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=wix.vscode-import-cost)
- [**JavaScript Booster**](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=sburg.vscode-javascript-booster)
- [**npm Intellisense**](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=christian-kohler.npm-intellisense)
- [**Prettier - Code formatter**](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=esbenp)
- [**Todo Tree**](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Gruntfuggly.todo-tree)
- [**Turbo Console Log**](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ChakrounAnas.turbo-console-log)
- [**Package Json Upgrade**](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=codeandstuff.package-json-upgrade)
- [**Visual Studio Code Commitizen Support**](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=KnisterPeter.vscode-commitizen)
- [**Markdown All in One**](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=yzhang.markdown-all-in-one)


## 🏁 Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- **Node.js**: Version 20.18.0 or higher
- **Docker**: For containerized deployment (optional but recommended)

### Installation

1. **Clone the Repository**:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/siddharthamaity/nextjs-15-starter-shadcn.git
    cd nextjs-15-starter-shadcn
    ```
    To get the code without example change branch to without-example
    ```bash
    git checkout without-example
    ```

2. **Install Dependencies**:
    ```bash
    npm install
    # or with Yarn
    yarn install
    ```

3. **Run Development Server**:
    ```bash
    npm run dev
    # or with Yarn
    yarn dev
    ```

4. **Build for Production**:
    ```bash
    npm run build
    ```

### 🐳 Docker Setup

To use Docker, make sure Docker is installed on your machine. Then, build and run the Docker container:

```bash
docker build . -t nextjs-starter-shadcn
docker run -p 3000:3000 nextjs-starter-shadcn
```

### ☁ Try it in the Cloud

[![Open in VS Code](https://img.shields.io/badge/Open%20in-VS%20Code-blue?logo=visualstudiocode)](https://vscode.dev/github/SiddharthaMaity/nextjs-15-starter-shadcn)

[![Open in GitHub Codespaces](https://img.shields.io/badge/Open%20in-GitHub%20Codespaces-blue?logo=github)](https://codespaces.new/SiddharthaMaity/nextjs-15-starter-shadcn)

[![Open in CodeSandbox](https://codesandbox.io/static/img/play-codesandbox.svg)](https://codesandbox.io/s/github/SiddharthaMaity/nextjs-15-starter-shadcn)

[![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/SiddharthaMaity/nextjs-15-starter-shadcn)

[![Open in StackBlitz](https://developer.stackblitz.com/img/open_in_stackblitz_small.svg)](https://stackblitz.com/github/SiddharthaMaity/nextjs-15-starter-shadcn)

[![Open in Repl.it](https://replit.com/badge/github/SiddharthaMaity/nextjs-15-starter-shadcn)](https://replit.com/github/SiddharthaMaity/nextjs-15-starter-shadcn)

[![Open in Glitch](https://img.shields.io/badge/Open%20in-Glitch-blue?logo=glitch)](https://glitch.com/edit/#!/import/github/SiddharthaMaity/nextjs-15-starter-shadcn)

[![Open in Codeanywhere](https://codeanywhere.com/img/open-in-codeanywhere-btn.svg)](https://app.codeanywhere.com/#https://github.com/SiddharthaMaity/nextjs-15-starter-shadcn)

### License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

<p style="text-align: center;"> With ❤️ from 🇮🇳 </p>

Commit message:

chore: Update dependencies and add Bun support in Dockerfile

README.md, after:

# Next.js 15 Starter (shadcn) [[LIVE DEMO](https://nextjs-15-starter-shadcn.vercel.app/)]

![MIT License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue) [![TypeScript](https://badgen.net/badge/icon/typescript?icon=typescript&label)](https://typescriptlang.org) ![ESLint](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-eslint-brightgreen) ![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/siddharthamaity/nextjs-15-starter-shadcn?style=social) ![GitHub forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/siddharthamaity/nextjs-15-starter-shadcn?style=social) [![Say Thanks!](https://img.shields.io/badge/Say%20Thanks-!-1EAEDB.svg)](https://saythanks.io/to/siddharthamaity)

*This is the Tailwind version for Next.js 15 Starter, you may be interested in other templates too -*
- [**Next.js 15 Starter Core**](https://github.com/SiddharthaMaity/nextjs-15-starter-core)
- [**Next.js 15 Starter with Tailwind CSS**](https://github.com/SiddharthaMaity/nextjs-15-starter-tailwind)

Welcome to the **Next.js 15 Starter** repository! This starter template is built with Next.js 15, React 19, TypeScript 5, Tailwind CSS 3, Shadcn UI and comes packed with several powerful tools and configurations to accelerate your project setup and streamline development workflows using VS Code.

![Next.js 15 Starter Shadcn](public/images/screenshot1.png)

![Next.js 15 Starter Shadcn](public/images/screenshot2.png)

## 🚀 What's Included

- **Next.js 15**
- **React 19**
- **TypeScript 5**
- **ESLint 9**
- **Prettier 3**
- **Tailwind CSS 4**
- **Shadcn UI**
- **App Directory**
- **System, Light & Dark Mode**
- **Next.js Bundle Analyzer**
- **Dockerfile** with Node.js 22.14.0 (Alpine)
- **Dockerfile.bun** with Bun 1.2.7 (Alpine)

### 🛠️ ESLint Plugins

- [**@eslint/js**](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@eslint/js)
- [**typescript-eslint**](https://github.com/typescript-eslint/typescript-eslint)
- [**eslint-plugin-react**](https://github.com/jsx-eslint/eslint-plugin-react)
- [**@next/eslint-plugin-next**](https://github.com/vercel/next.js)
- [**eslint-config-prettier**](eslint-config-prettier)
- [**eslint-plugin-tailwindcss**](https://github.com/francoismassart/eslint-plugin-tailwindcss)
- [**eslint-plugin-import**](https://github.com/import-js/eslint-plugin-import)
- [**eslint-plugin-promise**](https://github.com/eslint-community/eslint-plugin-promise)

### ✨ Prettier Plugins

- [**@trivago/prettier-plugin-sort-imports**](https://github.com/trivago/prettier-plugin-sort-imports)
- [**prettier-plugin-tailwindcss**](https://github.com/tailwindlabs/prettier-plugin-tailwindcss)

### 💻 VS Code Extensions (Recommended)

To enhance development experience, install the following VS Code extensions:

- [**Auto Close Tag**](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=formulahendry.auto-close-tag)
- [**Better Comments**](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=aaron-bond.better-comments)
- [**DotENV**](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=mikestead.dotenv)
- [**EditorConfig for VS Code**](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=EditorConfig.EditorConfig)
- [**ESLint**](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=dbaeumer.vscode-eslint)
- [**formate: CSS/LESS/SCSS formatter**](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=MikeBovenlander.formate)
- [**Git History**](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=donjayamanne.githistory)
- [**Import Cost**](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=wix.vscode-import-cost)
- [**JavaScript Booster**](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=sburg.vscode-javascript-booster)
- [**npm Intellisense**](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=christian-kohler.npm-intellisense)
- [**Prettier - Code formatter**](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=esbenp)
- [**Todo Tree**](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Gruntfuggly.todo-tree)
- [**Turbo Console Log**](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ChakrounAnas.turbo-console-log)
- [**Package Json Upgrade**](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=codeandstuff.package-json-upgrade)
- [**Visual Studio Code Commitizen Support**](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=KnisterPeter.vscode-commitizen)
- [**Markdown All in One**](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=yzhang.markdown-all-in-one)


## 🏁 Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- **Bun**: Version 1.2.7 or higher OR
- **Node.js**: Version 20.18.0 or higher
- **Docker**: For containerized deployment (optional but recommended)

### Installation

1. **Clone the Repository**:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/siddharthamaity/nextjs-15-starter-shadcn.git
    cd nextjs-15-starter-shadcn
    ```
    To get the code without example change branch to without-example
    ```bash
    git checkout without-example
    ```

2. **Install Dependencies**:
    ```bash
    npm install
    # or with Yarn
    yarn install
    # or with pnpm
    pnpm install
    # or with Bun
    bun install
    ```

3. **Run Development Server**:
    ```bash
    npm run dev
    # or with Yarn
    yarn dev
    # or with pnpm
    pnpm dev
    # or with Bun
    bun dev
    ```

4. **Build for Production**:
    ```bash
    npm run build
    # or with Yarn
    yarn build
    # or with pnpm
    pnpm build
    # or with Bun
    bun run build
    ```

### 🐳 Docker Setup

To use Docker, make sure Docker is installed on your machine. Then, build and run the Docker container:

```bash
docker build . -t nextjs-starter-shadcn
# or if using Bun
docker build . -t nextjs-starter-shadcn -f Dockerfile.bun

docker run -p 3000:3000 nextjs-starter-shadcn
```

### ☁ Try it in the Cloud

[![Open in VS Code](https://img.shields.io/badge/Open%20in-VS%20Code-blue?logo=visualstudiocode)](https://vscode.dev/github/SiddharthaMaity/nextjs-15-starter-shadcn)

[![Open in GitHub Codespaces](https://img.shields.io/badge/Open%20in-GitHub%20Codespaces-blue?logo=github)](https://codespaces.new/SiddharthaMaity/nextjs-15-starter-shadcn)

[![Open in CodeSandbox](https://codesandbox.io/static/img/play-codesandbox.svg)](https://codesandbox.io/s/github/SiddharthaMaity/nextjs-15-starter-shadcn)

[![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/SiddharthaMaity/nextjs-15-starter-shadcn)

[![Open in StackBlitz](https://developer.stackblitz.com/img/open_in_stackblitz_small.svg)](https://stackblitz.com/github/SiddharthaMaity/nextjs-15-starter-shadcn)

[![Open in Repl.it](https://replit.com/badge/github/SiddharthaMaity/nextjs-15-starter-shadcn)](https://replit.com/github/SiddharthaMaity/nextjs-15-starter-shadcn)

[![Open in Glitch](https://img.shields.io/badge/Open%20in-Glitch-blue?logo=glitch)](https://glitch.com/edit/#!/import/github/SiddharthaMaity/nextjs-15-starter-shadcn)

[![Open in Codeanywhere](https://codeanywhere.com/img/open-in-codeanywhere-btn.svg)](https://app.codeanywhere.com/#https://github.com/SiddharthaMaity/nextjs-15-starter-shadcn)

### License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

<p style="text-align: center;"> With ❤️ from 🇮🇳 </p>
